---
layout: post
title: Activity Classification Part 2
---
 # What to do when your model is almost too good?
 ## ...find a problem with it
 I thought about it some more and what I wanted to do with
 the activity classifier and I realized that a Gradient Boosting
 Classifier would be too computationally intensive to use on 
 a wearable-sized device. Also, the models I was using are not
 necessarily meant for time series data. Technically the model
 worked, but it considered the data as a random collection of 
 labeled x-, y-, and z-accelerations and angular velocities
 rather than a series of time-dependent measurements.
 
 So, I decided to look at the data as a time series and considered
 other metrics that would be more practical for a live stream of
 accelerations and angular velocities. 
 
 # Time and Cadence: Sounds like a frequency problem
 My first idea was to look into the frequency domain and take
 a fast fourier transform of the magnitude of acceleration to
 see what happened. It turns out that the fft does a pretty
 great job of distinguishing running from walking.
 
 # Wearable Tech: Low Processing Power
 Unfortunately, FFT is too computationally intensive to calculte
 live-time on the small electronics typically found in 
 activity trackers. So I had to funnel down deeper and consider
 simpler metrics, such as the mean, maximum, minimum, standard 
 deviation, median, and median absolute deviation. Any of these
 methods would be very easy to process in a wearable device in
 live-time. Luckily, many of these metrics also did a decent job
 distinguishing walking from running. 
 
 # Generally speaking...
 None of these specific metrics will be useful for any 
 runner other than the one subject in this dataset. Unfortunately,
 no one else will have the exact same cadence, body build, 
 running or walking patterns, etc again, which means any model
 I've created won't generalize to the population. If I had more
 time, I would get data from a variety of subjects and see if 
 there exists a better, less-specific model. 
 
 # I also had some fun with data visualization
 ### I tried my hand at Plotly, D3, and Flask
 
 ### Plotly: Two ways to compare the distributions of metrics 
 ### for walking vs. running
 
 Distribution Plot Lines
<iframe width="900" height="800" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="//plot.ly/~badderc/11.embed"></iframe>

Boxplots
<iframe width="900" height="800" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="//plot.ly/~badderc/14.embed"></iframe>

